and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm your host sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and today i am joined by stephen hodges
returning guest back to the show
steven's the ceo over at bosen hob boson
hub digital development he's an
instructor of business
and computer science over oregon state
university and he's also an adjunct
professor
stephen welcome back sir how you doing
man good you make me feel like a big
deal you have this really nice intro and
then oh returning guest
uh i'm just i'm just stephen
i i just like to do uh my my business
and i just like to do my teaching but
when i come onto this podcast you make
me feel like i'm a big deal so next time
if you could get the virtual red carpet
out maybe some laser light
yeah it is coming up man okay
all the way from all the way from us to
the uk we'll make it happen somehow
that would be a powerful laser cool dude
so last time we talked about google my
business
we are shifting the focus which went
down really well some great reviews on
that
that episode now we're going to be
talking about why website security
is so important so first of all stephen
why why do we need to think about our
site why do we need to think about how
secure it is
so recently at least here in the u.s
there have been some really
high profile hackings there was a meat
manufacturing company and then there was
a pipeline
that both of them were held hostage and
they got hacked they got hacked and
um there was a lot of warning that they
had
knowing that there are some
vulnerabilities in these systems
um and so i mean that's obviously for
massive companies but even for the mom
and pop shops and for
web pages like your web page and my web
page and a wordpress web page
all of that's so important to secure and
at least go through some very basic
you know it management password policies
and things like that
um because it's it's a headache it's an
absolute headache and there's some
very simple things that you can do to
prevent that headache because
you want to run your business i want to
run my business and we want to make sure
that our clients or whomever we're
serving is taken care of and
we have to deal with our gosh darn web
page or someone's holding our computer
hostage
we're we're not making value for anybody
so that's the biggest reason
that security should be something that
is mostly automatic
if you have the right safeguards in
place and then you have a policy or a
game plan
in pace place in the event that
something happens gotcha
gotcha um and what are when we think of
an unsecured site let's look at perhaps
worst case scenario kind of lawsuits
losing money
losing customers customers details
getting stolen what are some of the kind
of worst cases
um of your website being hacked or
some kind of vulnerability happening and
what are some of the milder cases so
people can kind of get an idea of
absolute worst case an absolute mild
case
and then perhaps we can chat about kind
of signs to look out for
sure sure so worst case scenario is if
you have something maybe like an
e-commerce website
um if you have an e-commerce website
that is making money or maybe running
subscriptions
and if that is out of date or if there
are some vulnerabilities or things that
need to be updated
um if that is is down and you can't run
subscriptions and people can't buy
things from you you're
actively losing money there's also
reputation so if you have someone and or
you're running a
seo campaign so web choice uk is running
an awesome seo campaign
or you're running google ads to
something you know you can obviously
tailor back your google ads but for
you know seo because of the you know the
slow growth and the
and and that goes into that and then you
have to
you can't necessarily just turn that off
and so that reputation and
reputation management is really really
important um and even things like you
know having your website um
say not secure in the corner you know
i think that a lot more people are aware
of maybe if a website looks old or if a
website says not secure it doesn't have
an ssl certificate those are the lesser
case
scenarios um any of that is is
are things that can be actively managed
and you can do some proactive things
that are very very simple
put things in place to be able to
prevent that from becoming a really big
issue
yeah yeah yeah great point in terms of
kind of e-commerce if you
if you've got a bunch of customers and
something goes wrong you could
immediately lose all your sales
overnight um brand reputation
if if your site goes down people try and
search for it it doesn't appear then
you've probably lost
a bunch of revenue in terms of ad spend
and also
what people think of your company if you
can't keep your site running
yeah and i guess also if you're not in
the e-commerce market if you've just got
a site that perhaps
kind of has user accounts or has some
kind of crm linked on the back of it
so you could lose a bunch of data which
could even be
be more inc could be even be more
catastrophic depending on what's on the
back of it
and what you're storing and if that goes
if that goes into the world then you
could be
absolutely screwed right true yeah if
you have something operationally again
like you know there is literally a
pipeline
that controlled a lot of the uh crude
oil flow in the eastern part of the
united states that got hacked
and those systems were all operated and
if you think about i mean
iot the internet of things and getting
things connected is really convenient a
lot of the times because you can manage
a lot of things but
when you get those things connected i
mean they could they could be hacked
and so everything from those massive
operational systems that you're either
losing data or
you're trying to serve people especially
if it's again things like e-commerce
that people expect things so quickly or
i mean crude oil flow um all the way
down to
what if someone tries to google your
site and if it says
this site might be hacked and that is
not a good day
when google thinks that there's
something wrong with your site
uh that reputation because google if
they refer to your website that
reputation management is really
important i'm sure you've heard that on
this podcast before because sam uh you
know helps our company with that uh
and so that reputation is really really
important and people are being like
if google says it's hacked not gonna
touch it no way
exactly if someone flicks onto your site
or sees your listing on google and if
there's any
any kind of scary warning signs then
that that is that's gone that's that
customer gone
um so are there any telltale signs
stephen that we need to look at
perhaps we're listening or watching in
and we're thinking oh damn i want to
make sure my website's in a secure state
straight up straight away
are there any signs that we need to look
out for before we kind of go into
actionable tips here are there any signs
that we
can kind of just have a glance either
the front end the visual of our site
or we need to look into the code just to
kind of i guess do
a basic health check as such yeah i
should probably preface that the the big
focus on
at least my expertise is going to be
specifically within wordpress websites
uh wordpress websites are
you know 30 of the internet there's a
lot of people probably listening to the
show that use wordpress
whether they know it or not uh it's just
such a powerful cms that a lot of people
know i know that sam has built some
custom php
um web pages before and that's a
completely different thing and like
operational systems
you know that's massive and that's huge
but specifically because of
who i deal with a lot of times small
medium-sized businesses that have
wordpress websites
um the the big big big thing updates
updates are so massively important um
and it used to be really really
dangerous almost well
dangerous is not the right word but it
was up in the air on if you updated
something if your site would break
it's because wordpress has plug-ins
themes and core
and especially when wordpress comes out
with massive core updates or like a
security patch or something like that
because it powers 30 of the internet
it's so important to stay on top of
those updates
so um i sometimes will onboard into a
website and then
they have like 30 updates that are
available and i'm like oh
oh my goodness and this is a massive
massive massive
red flag and if you've done an update
and it's something broken on the site
and you know that you need to fix it fix
it immediately
um i and and i do mean immediately um
whatever you need to do either building
a child theme finding a new plugin or
whatever it is
um that should be top top priorities
making sure that your website can be
um can get patches because a lot of
times a lot of those patches that come
through it's because there's a
vulnerability
that was found and then that patch goes
through and then if you if you update
the plug-in and then suddenly you lose
your ability
to schedule clients or whatever it is
finding finding a new
pivot um is a really really important
thing that's probably the
biggest biggest flag gotcha
and in terms of updating the platform
so you're quite right wordpress quite
regularly needs updates and as to
many other website platforms that you
might design or build your site on
is that something we can just jump in
and do ourself and we can just literally
click
update bang done or is it something we
should get the help of
perhaps a more specialist developer or
is it a bit of both
yeah so i'm i'm a teacher so i'm always
about empowering you know the end user
being educated about what's going on and
so there are really two approaches to
this
you know if you want to do everything
yourself or if you don't maybe have the
budget to hire a professional
you can absolutely go about this however
there are a couple of very
inexpensive tools that you can use that
they do cost money but they're worth
every single penny one of them is i use
a suite called
wpmu they're an australian company
and they have a system that if there's
an update and then if your site breaks
it'll automatically
bounce back um automatically which is
really really great
um and so we have those set up on a lot
of our client web pages that it'll do it
and then if there's an issue it rolls
back and then i get an email saying hey
there's some there's something
goes wrong and historically um
previous to maybe about wordpress 5.2 um
there were a lot of changes that came
through particularly like when um
you know gutenberg came along and stuff
like that there were a lot of
potential breakages in my experience
though and we you know we actively
manage a couple hundred web pages um
it's
it's pretty rare these days if the web
page is built
properly um there's also i'm a big fan
of a company called siteground
siteground has daily backups so if you
go through and
yeah i mean it you can literally click
update update update
and you could and then you check your
website and that's all yeah that's
all you got to do open it up clear your
cache open it up in the incognito window
and look through your website and if
it's all good it's great and if
something
doesn't work you you can click and you
can restore
in what five ten minutes however long it
takes for your website to
to restore um those are and siteground's
a little bit more expensive than other
hosting companies wpmu for one size like
15 bucks a month
on its own so these tools do have a cost
but if you want to do
that and if you want to do everything
yourself that that's worth every single
penny
you know and if you you're heaven forbid
your website gets hacked if you have
those daily backups whether it's the
wpmu daily backups or siteground daily
backups
um you can do that you know there's a
couple of um premium like siteground has
their premium it's 20 bucks a year
um for their premium site scanner
service or whatever it is
um you know that's worth every penny
because if there's something that
happens
you have somebody that you can talk to
and and they can help you through it and
it's very very minor investment
now if you're at a point in your
business where you're like you know i
need to pass this off to a professional
um there are professionals like myself
and
sam and i think that you do this as well
as part of part of your your services
that you
maintain websites because if you're
maintaining you're actively maintaining
and you're doing little by little that's
way better than being like
massive update massive update massive
update
and then doing things like okay well i
know that i have to build a child theme
and then bringing in a professional um
and working with your budget you know a
lot of us are willing to do that
depending on where we can partner with
you
nice well that's that's useful certainly
is a starting point making sure that
your
your site's regularly updated and you're
kind of keeping plugins up to date
you're keeping the platform itself
up to date and hosting making sure
you've got something whereby your site
is regularly backed up so if there is an
issue
you can switch to a past version of your
site and get something back up and
running as soon as
so any other kind of key points that are
really important that we need to
kind of check over either regularly or
something we need to check right now
uh yeah so there there is a company
called um itheme
um and i themes is a wonderful company
that makes uh they make their own
security plugin called i theme security
pro
um i they very very inexpensive plug-in
um having those paid plugins is
is a really big difference versus pr
free plugins um
and so they come out with a security
digest
um and you can sign up for those um so i
i bought
their their suite probably you know five
six years ago about a lifetime
it was one of those lifetime deal things
and so i'm stuck with them forever
um so i get uh backup buddy so i i use
backup buddy so not only do i use
you know daily backups um on siteground
but i use backup buddy because that
backs it up to
um dropbox and so i have
my client pages that in the event that
there is like
i don't know siteground is backed by
google and so i don't really have
any concern about either of those going
down um but as a just in case i have a
copy of it there
and so in the event that you do get
hacked like massively hacked or whatever
it is
someone you know logs in and deletes all
your backups and stuff like that it's on
dropbox
and so uh those types of things you know
go a very very long way but i theme
comes out with a digest of different
vulnerabilities
and so they come out with it i want to
say uh it's like once a week
and again these are the types of things
that we keep on top of because you know
we manage a couple hundred
sites for our clients and if there's
something that's like well you know the
automated
um you know the automated uh update's
gonna go through in three days
oh this needs to get done now and in
general
at least for the small and medium-sized
businesses it's not
urgent urgent but sometimes it is
especially ecommerce website
if you have clients that if you have uh
e-commerce or any sort of web page that
you have customers that have their own
logins
those are the websites that are really
important because uh in general people
have very weak passwords
in general people never change those
passwords and those passwords are the
same for everybody
so really staying on top of it and
that's where you have to decide as a
business owner do you want to hire
someone who's going to take care of
it for you for 120 a month or is this
something that you want to do yourself
that's up to you gotcha passwords is a
great point
so i mean we've we've taken over many
customers sites
where their password literally to their
own
what's called a content management
system but that's just jargon for your
website's admin dashboard where you can
log in
and control your website content or if
your e-commerce your products
so your website admin dashboard where
they've literally been admin or admin
123.
um so which isn't gonna be too tricky
for a hacker to
to tap into and steal all your data or
your sales or whatever they're after
or your code and do as they wish so any
any tips around kind of your own site
and making sure that you have a
sound password and any considerations
there
yeah so personally the best practice is
to change your passwords every three
months
and that is that is something that the
vast majority of people don't actually
do
however there are some wonderful and
again this is from like a personal point
of view for your own passwords there's
some wonderful password management tools
that are either free or a couple dollars
a month
that will help with the automation with
automatic login and no longer is it
something that's like well i need to
think about what it is in the top my
head it's like
well i mean there probably should be
like a master password that you should
be able to figure out on the top of your
head whatever that looks like
but using some sort of password
management system um lastpass was
one of the most famous and well-known
ones there's
there's a company called bitwarden that
is
that is one um you know some people uh
just use their browser to store their
passwords and that's not always the most
secure thing in the world
um and it depends it depends on on who
you are and how you have your devices
um you know i i have had clients that
get upset
when i set email up on their phone it
requires them to put a lock on their
phone
um i mean that that device if someone is
able to get into your device that is a
portal into your soul
and so from a personal point of view you
kind of want to you kind of want to
clean that up and then you need to
assume again if you have
contractors or if you have anyone else
that has a login to your website you
need to assume that they have forgotten
about changing their password or that
those passwords will get
leaked at some point and so um defender
which is through wpmu
has a tool that automatically requires
passwords to be changed from your
clients every once in a while
and that messaging is sometimes a little
bit tricky
because you don't want to send out a
message be like you have to change your
password because the assumption is that
oh something happened and is my credit
card safe and blah blah blah blah blah
blah
no you have to make sure that you're
being very clear to be like because we
care about you
and we care about your safety and
security and because home depot got
hacked
target got hacked you know everyone got
hacked we require our clients to change
their passwords every couple
couple months and if you want to get rid
of this account with us no big deal
click this button
and um defender makes that happen and
you can do all of that that's a new
thing that they do
and you can also do things like defender
has a threshold of
you know fi i think it's i have it set
to five logins
which on a bigger if you do five bad
logins your ip automatically gets
blocked or
you say you have to talk to the uh the
admin that can get a little cumbersome
but however um i do that for some of my
clients as well
because um i i take care of that and say
hey
you're there's somebody who's trying to
log in with you i've deleted your
account whatever it is
so that customer service management part
um
that that just goes a very very long way
again these tools whether it's wpmu
or siteground um has their own security
plug-in that they just released this
morning
um or whether it's itheme security
wordfence is a great
one whatever it is installing it
configuring it and then staying on top
of it
those things will go very very long way
to prevent a headache
yeah so make sure you check out those
those plugins guys and just to kind of
hone in on what steven's talking about
is essentially
kind of getting those things set up and
also
ultimately i guess and correcting from
wrong stephen is
if if a hacker is trying to get into
your site usually they'll
have some way of guessing the logins to
your admin
side of your website so if they have x
amount of wrong attempts
so let's say it's three it might be five
attempts then they their
ip so how they connect to the internet
gets completely blocked completely shut
down from
connecting to your website so that's
kind of one of the main goals of these
sites as well as giving you a secure
password
essentially blocking these guys from
getting in yeah i do i mean i do get
that a lot like why in the world would
someone want to hack my website
and and a lot of times it's bots so a
lot of times it's bots and
they randomize their ip addresses and so
they'll try one ip address that gets
blocked and they'll go to another go to
another go to another and
um that does happen and it's completely
random because
they're just looking for they cast a
super wide net
and the moment you get one of those
websites i mean you could you could do
things where you
you know put like a key logger on it
where you start capturing
credit card information um you could
literally hold the website hostage to
say like well you know
in order to get this website back you
have to send you know a bitcoin to us um
you know people people have that happen
on their own personal computers as well
um i've had to even though i haven't
worked in 19 years i've had to
get get go through some of those things
and that's that's what happened with
like the pipeline in the
um manufacturing company in in the
united states is that
they said you had to pay you know
millions of dollars in order to get this
released
and it's like nobody wants to go through
that situation
so if you're willing to do a couple of
very minor things
up front and then have a game plan in
place
be like oh i know exactly what we're
doing um security doesn't have to be
scary it doesn't have to be hard
you know have been able to pull a backup
and whether you're getting educated or
you're hiring a professional it's just
like take that take that burden
off you does not have to be scary um you
want to run your business
you don't want to have to worry about
this stuff yeah exactly right and i
suppose it's the last thing you're going
to think about right your website going
down you just trust that it's going to
click along nicely do what you need it
to do whether that's
generate leads or generate sales or
whatever you want to get out of your
website
be a good brand building piece whatever
so if that if something scary like this
does happen just make sure like steven's
been going through that you have got
appropriate hosting you've got
appropriate backups you're keeping your
site updated
you're installing security plugins
whether it's for your passwords or to
stop kind of
brute force attacks um i mean one quick
point on my side is
doesn't happen so much anymore but um i
think you touched on a little bit
earlier stephen making sure you've got
an ssl certificate
which is basically when you when you do
a search for a site you see the padlock
in the in the search and you see the
https
colon slash and then the website address
um important for a couple
reasons actually now first of all it's a
google ranking factor so you haven't got
if you haven't got an ssl certificate
google might downlag it as unsecure
which is going to ruin your brand
reputation if someone tries to click on
your website
um and secondly it does help against the
the security side of things and keeps
your website secure against certain
bits and pieces are there any kind of
smaller ones like
that piece stephen that we've not yet
covered yeah so
ssl is is the industry standard just
like you said um
ranking factors it does it does matter
but more so it's the reputation
so again people want to just like you
said people want to feel safe when they
click on something
yeah and google you know google
is what what 80 of what people use or
something crazy like that
and so you know they they tie in with
each other and there's a big huge thing
being like uh if you go to like a
like safari i mean it's a big red screen
says like this site is not secure and
that could happen to you
and a lot of reputable hosts will give
you a
free ssl certificate and that will be
sufficient
for most people so like my website
that's what we use it's because it's an
informational website
and it does a very basic job now if
you're running an e-commerce website
there are always upsells and these
companies always upsell
there's a company called comodo um that
they're kind of the industry standard
and i do recommend going with a
with a better ssl if you're managing
again credit card information
et cetera especially for things like pci
compliance um but
having that most reputable hosts will
give that to you
for free so including again siteground
siteground it's a one-click install
and then and it takes like two minutes
and then one click
to get https in force and then their
their plugin just manages all of that
for you
and that goes a very very long way
and it's little things like that that
that make a really big
difference and yes that does help with
your site security as well nice
nice all right well we've covered some
some good ground are there any other
kind of more basic or lesser known
things that we just need to
perhaps be aware of whether that is just
making sure that
users feel comfortable and secure and
kind of have confidence when they're on
our site or
any other points that we just need to
have in place to essentially make sure
our site's not going to get hacked and
it's going to be safe and
secure for the longer term yes websites
are are living and breathing things you
know they're they are
are constantly changing and they should
be constantly changing that's good for
seo right you want to have
dynamic content on there but you also
want to make sure that things are
staying updated and
if you build a website from the script
from scratch that's wordpress i use divi
a lot you know get rid of any plugins
that you don't need
um any plugins that are no longer
supported just get rid of them
building a website that is as skinny as
possible
um get rid of all the plugins that you
don't need don't just plug install
plugins just because you can
um i i see i i see that quite a bit um
another
another thing is uh php um
gets updated every once in a while as
well and so there are new um
i think 8.0 just came out in in still in
beta
and then the majority of my websites
just moved from 7.3 to 7.4
i get most reputable hosts that should
be automatic
however that's something to keep in mind
and then the best practice for doing
updates
is start at the server level so you
start with php
then you do wordpress core then you do
theme and then you do plug-ins if you're
doing it manually
um and and every single time you click
an update you just check the site
check the site check the site check the
site um and
that that's how you go about it that's
how you and and that's so vitally
important that you're doing touch points
on your own website several times it's
not just like it was
you know 10 15 years ago that you make a
website and just kind of slap it up
there and expect it to live on forever
you do have to do maintenance um it's
just kind of the the nature of how web
pages work so that's i guess the biggest
key
is that if you're if you have a website
and it's a you know the
external facing portal of your business
whether it's a lead generation
tool or whether it's a validation tool
to be like hey i'm a valid
and legit company um you need to be
poking at it at least a couple times a
month
yeah solid points man so um and just to
reinforce what stephen was saying there
if you're constantly adding
plug-ins or add-ons or bolt-ons to your
site not only is it gonna
perhaps compromise your security if some
of those go out of date
but your site's gonna become cumbersome
and clunky and it's probably gonna slow
your page speed down
um there's nothing worse literally the
one of the worst things that a website
can be is slow loading
is it might affect your google page
speed but worse than that if someone
clicks on your site and it takes three
four five seconds to load they're gonna
get bored frustrated tired and head to a
competitor that gives them a better
experience
and like stephen was touching on if
you're regularly checking your website
updating your content
that's going to be great for seo because
google loves fresh
regularly updated helpful content and
one final point is
like stephen said it's a your website
literally is a living organism that's
live 24 7 so make sure you are testing
things which isn't so much on security
but if you are running ecommerce
regularly testing on your end that the
payment processing is working smoothly
or if you're more of an informational or
legion site testing out your inquiry
forms
making sure they actually come through
to you okay which is an error we see
all the time where people come to us and
say my inquiry forms aren't working well
have you tested them lately
and likewise making sure your phone
number's all up to date it's just basics
which aren't quite along the security
lines but just making sure that your
website's working hard for you
and ultimately if you're just paying
money on marketing or advertising you
want to make sure this site works as
smoothly as possible to feed you leads
or feed yourselves or
stand up for your brand um anything else
you'd like to close out
on your end stephen yeah i'm so glad you
mentioned about contact forms
um we we use ninja forms ninja forms is
my go-to a lot of people
use gravity forms or contact form seven
is kind of the industry standard
but i really really like ninja forms uh
there's a free version
and then of course we have we have the
paid version um i'm a big believer in
the paid versions of these things and
it's like it's like 50 bucks a year
and it stores all of these submissions
on the website
which is so if there's ever an issue
with your email or whatever you can go
onto your website and all of your
submissions that are there however you
want to make
you want to make sure that you have your
site secured so in the event that
someone tries to hack in and then they
get all your
customer contacts you want to lose those
leads that's it nope and then
spam uh recaptcha is uh is a free tool
and it's through google and you can
install that and integrate it very
easily
with um with ninja forms and that's one
thing i had clients that are like oh we
got rid of this because i was getting
all of the spam
it's like either that or there's a
couple anti-spam
uh plugins that you can put on your
website but just use captcha
it's so easy get that inquiry form on
there get those leads
very very good point to end on capture
so just just to dive in that a bit
deeper we've installed those on a few
customer sites recently because
i'm sure if you're a business owner
you've got an information based site if
you've not got one of these you probably
get a lot of
dummy or spam inquiries or offshore
inquiries about all kinds of nonsense if
you
something called capture or recapture
which is about c-a-p-t-c-h-a
i believe um and basically it's a little
tick box you can put under your inquiry
form you tick it
and sometimes if you if you do a special
recapture one people have to click like
which image is the bicycle
they choose choose the right images it
proves you're not a robot
filters out a bunch of spam and um
saves you going through 100 emails a day
uh probably a load of nonsense
so um yeah that's definitely worth
installing nice ad
cool stephen as always absolute pleasure
thanks for going through some
some of the basics and some of the more
detailed um
things when it comes to securing your
website and giving yourself and your
business peace of mind as well as your
customers
with that sir please do tell us more
about how we can learn from you
how we can connect with you and the best
way to get in touch
uh best way to get in touch is that we
are on facebook boson hub digital
development i'm also on linkedin stephen
hodges
uh my handle is steven m hodges uh
there's only one of me i have the same
grin
every single time just like this and i
always give
an hour of free consulting so if you
hear this and you want a free hour of
consult i
always do one hour just to send you in
the right direction again i'm also a
teacher
and so i'm always willing to do that and
then we can either figure out hey are we
going to
host are we going to make maintain this
or am i going to send you to a place
like siteground
um so that's the best way to get a hold
of me is that our facebook page is
bosonhub digital development
bosonhub.com and also on linkedin
stephen m hodges
nice one stephen we'll put all of those
links over on the show notes which will
be at businessgrowth.marketing
and if you haven't yet installed google
my business we had an episode a few
months back with stephen all about
google
my business why you need that why you
need to come up on local search how that
can help you
build your brand generate more calls
generate more inquiries build your brand
reputation review so be sure to check
out that episode
and with that i want to thank you for
tuning in if you enjoyed the show do hit
subscribe we
share actionable tips across um
marketing every week with business
leaders as well as myself
and we'll catch you on the next episode
we'll get those uh
get those confetti cannons ready right
that's it all guns blazing cheers guys
see ya